**Competition.md**

There are three potential competitors that we have for our “Learn to
program” website and app. Those competitors are
[brilliant.org](https://brilliant.org),
[sololearn.com](https://www.sololearn.com), and
[w3schools.com](https://www.w3schools.com/). The following is a summary
of each competitor.

**Brilliant.org**

Brilliant.org is a website that hosts learning courses for STEM topics
like software development. Learning courses on Brilliant.org consist of
tutorials and quizzes. Tutorials introduce the learning concepts using
analogies, images, and learning activities.

![Graphical user interface, text Description automatically
generated](competition_media/brilliant1.PNG)

Slide 2 of the "Writing Programs" course on brilliant.org.
Retrieved from
<https://brilliant.org/practice/interactive-programs/?p=2>\[4\].

Quizzes assess the user’s understanding of a concept through
multiple-choice questions.

![Graphical user interface Description automatically
generated](competition_media/brilliant2.PNG)

Slide 4 of the "Writing Programs" course on brilliant.org.
Retrieved from
<https://brilliant.org/practice/interactive-programs/?p=4>\[5\].

Our website differs from Brilliant.org in two ways. We assess a user’s
understanding of a topic using visual games instead of multiple-choice
quizzes. It is easier for visual learners to understand a question if it
is presented graphically. Brilliant.org did not consider graphical
representation because it is more difficult to teach certain computer
science topics with visuals (e.g. loops). To do so would require more
time and therefore more money.

Our learning website will allow users to learn for free. That is, none
of our games will be locked behind a paywall. Offering free learning
increases user satisfaction. Brilliant.org did not consider free
learning because they want to maximize their revenue.

**SoloLearn**

[Sololearn.com](https://www.sololearn.com/) is a website that hosts
learning courses for various programming languages. Learning courses on
sololearn.com consist of 5 types of activities. The first type
introduces programming concepts using interactive code snippets.

![Graphical user interface, text, application, chat or text message
Description automatically
generated](competition_media/sololearn1.PNG)

A slide introducing basic arithmetic in Python. Retrieved from
<https://www.sololearn.com/learning/1073/2271/4563/1>\[7\].

The other 4 types of activities consist of fill-in the blank code
snippets, determining the output of a given piece of code, rearranging
lines of code to achieve a result, and full-scale programming problems.

![Graphical user interface, text, application Description automatically
generated](competition_media/sololearn2.PNG)

A slide depicting the "re-arrange the code" activity. Retrieved
from <https://www.sololearn.com/learning/1073/2494/5276/2>\[6\].

Our website differs from sololearn.com in that we introduce programming
concepts without the use of explicit code. Instead, we use analogies and
images to introduce concepts like loops and variables. It is easier for
visual learners to digest concepts that are presented graphically.
Sololearn.com did not consider graphical representation because code
snippets more closely resemble what actual computer programs look like.
Presenting programming concepts in a graphical manner requires
sololearn.com to completely redesign their learning activities (more
money).

**W3Schools**

[W3schools.com](https://www.w3schools.com/) is a website that hosts
tutorials, exercises, and quizzes for various web development
technologies. All w3schools content can be accessed without an account.
Tutorials introduces web development concepts using interactive code
snippets.

![Graphical user interface, text, application Description automatically
generated](competition_media/w3schools1.PNG)

A w3schools tutorial on CSS Syntax. Retrieved from
<https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_syntax.asp>\[1\]

Exercises help the user gain a better understanding of a concept using
fill-in the blank code snippets or programming problems. Full solutions
are available to users for free.

![Graphical user interface, text Description automatically
generated](competition_media/w3schools2.PNG)

A w3schools CSS exercise. Retrieved from
<https://www.w3schools.com/css/exercise.asp>\[2\]

Quizzes assess the user’s understanding of a concept using
multiple-choice questions.

![](competition_media/w3schools3.PNG)

A w3schools CSS quiz. Retrieved from
<https://www.w3schools.com/quiztest/quiztest.asp?qtest=CSS>\[3\]

Our website differs from w3schools.com in three ways. Our website will
not give away full solutions to our interactive games. Hiding full
problem solutions challenges the user to find the solution themselves.
Doing so results in a more effective and satisfying learning experience.
W3schools.com did not hide solutions because it is possible to learn a
web development concept by understanding how and why a solution to a
related problem works. Hiding solutions from users will result in lower
user satisfaction.

Our website requires users to sign up for an account in order to access
our interactive games. This lets us track user activity on our site and
implement other features like leaderboards. W3schools.com does not
require visitors to sign up for accounts because it would be an
inconvenience to the visitor. Doing so would deter a lot of visitors
from using w3schools.com resulting in less site traffic.

Our website mainly targets visual learners. It is easier for visual
learners to digest web development concepts that are presented
graphically. To target visual learners, w3schools.com would have to
redesign their tutorials to include more images and less code snippets
(takes time and money).

References

\[1\] Refsnes Data.CSS
Syntax.url:https://www.w3schools.com/css/css\_syntax.asp. (accessed:
26.01.2021).

\[2\] Refsnes Data.Exercise
v3.0.url:https://www.w3schools.com/css/exercise.asp. (accessed:
26.01.2021).

\[3\] Refsnes Data.W3Schools Quiz
v3.0.url:https://www.w3schools.com/quiztest/quiztest.asp?qtest=CSS.
(accessed: 26.01.2021).

\[4\] Brilliant Worldwide Inc.Writing Programs Practice Problems Online
—Brilliant.url:https://brilliant.org/practice/interactive-programs/?p=2.
(accessed: 26.01.2021).

\[5\] Brilliant Worldwide Inc.Writing Programs Practice Problems Online
—Brilliant.url:https://brilliant.org/practice/interactive-programs/?p=4.
(accessed: 26.01.2021).

\[6\] SoloLearn Inc.Module 4 Quiz —
SoloLearn.url:https://www.sololearn.com/learning/1073/2494/5276/2.
(accessed: 26.01.2021).

\[7\] SoloLearn Inc.Simple Operations —
SoloLearn.url:https://www.sololearn.com/learning/1073/2271/4563/1.
(accessed: 26.01.2021).
